CORRECT VERSION: Introduction: I want to pursue bioinformatics because 
computation is at the heart of the future of biology. Biology has always 
been a data-rich science, but in the last two decades the scale of data 
has expanded beyond what can be managed by human eyes, paper notebooks, or 
manual methods at the bench. Sequencing projects, imaging platforms, and 
high-throughput experiments now generate terabytes of data that can only 
be meaningfully analyzed with computational tools. The mundane, 
repetitive, and error-prone tasks that once consumed much of laboratory 
work—such as annotating genomes, parsing sequences, or aligning 
proteins—are increasingly being automated. Bioinformatics is the 
discipline that transforms this raw data into insight. For me, learning 
bioinformatics is not just about acquiring a technical skill; it is about 
positioning myself to contribute meaningfully to modern biology by 
combining the intuition of experimental work with the rigor of 
computational analysis. I want to learn how to apply bioinformatics to 
more molecular biological research.

I am curious about bioinformatics too. I want to explore what 
bioinformatics is, what it can do, and how it can change the way I 
approach research questions. My first exposure came during my freshman 
year through the Phage Lab program. We used DNA Master, a ready-made 
program, to annotate bacteriophage genomes and attempt to characterize 
unknown genes. At the time, I was struck by the power of clicking a button 
and suddenly having an entire genome laid out in front of me. Although I 
did not yet understand the algorithms behind it, I could sense that 
computation was enabling a type of biology inaccessible otherwise. That 
experience left me wanting to peel back the layers and understand not only 
how to use these tools, but how they work.

Goals for the Course: I want to become comfortable with the Unix command 
line, GitHub version control, and writing reproducible scripts in Python 
or R. I want to learn to structure projects in a way that is clear and 
transparent, so that my future self or a collaborator could pick up my 
work without confusion. I also want to gain the confidence to approach new 
tools independently—whether that means figuring out how to use BLAST on a 
sequence dataset or parsing a large transcriptome file with custom code. I 
want this course to change the way I think about biology. I want to 
develop the instinct to ask questions that are computationally tractable 
and to imagine experiments not just in terms of what I can do in the lab, 
but also what I can extract from data. By the end of the semester, I hope 
to view bioinformatics not as a separate skill but as an integral part of 
my identity as a scientist.

Plan of Attack for Learning: My strategy for learning bioinformatics this 
semester will be based on consistency, practice, and integration. I will 
have to dedicate regular time to practicing the command line and 
scripting, even outside of assignments, because fluency comes from 
repetition. I will take careful notes and document my commands, both to 
learn and to build habits of reproducibility. I hope to maybe also embrace 
the collaborative nature of the course. Bioinformatics, like science more 
broadly, thrives on community. I will ask questions when I am confused and 
view collaboration as part of the learning process.

Why the Folder Structure Matters: The folder structure I created for this 
assignment is important because scientific results mean little if they 
cannot be reproduced, and reproducibility requires careful attention to how data, 
code, and results are stored. Separating raw from cleaned data ensures 
that original files are never overwritten. Keeping scripts distinct from 
results guarantees that analyses can be rerun without ambiguity. Logs 
provide a record of what worked and what failed, while configuration files 
preserve the exact parameters used. Documentation ties it all together, 
guiding future users through the logic of the project. This organization 
may seem mundane, but it is in fact essential. A messy folder can derail 
months of work, while a clean, documented structure makes science 
transparent, shareable, and trustworthy.

Documented code is the lifeline of bioinformatics research. Code without 
comments, explanations, or structure is a black box; it may produce 
results once, but it cannot form the basis of science. Documenting 
code—through comments, readable variable names, and usage notes—transforms 
it into a scientific method. It allows others to trace how conclusions 
were reached, to replicate analyses, and to identify errors. In my own 
work, I have already seen how undocumented methods can lead to confusion 
months later. Learning to write clear, transparent code is not just good 
practice; it is an ethical obligation to the scientific community.

Background and Personal Perspective: I come to this course as a third-year 
biology student with growing experience in research. In my lab work, I 
have investigated questions in microbiology, phage biology, and gene 
function. I need to grow into a stronger researcher. At the same time, I 
am motivated by broader goals. I want to make science inclusive and 
transparent. I believe bioinformatics, when practiced with open-source 
tools and reproducible practices, has the power to democratize science by 
lowering barriers to entry. Anyone with access to a computer and the right 
knowledge can analyze genomes, uncover patterns, and make discoveries. 
That vision excites me, and I want to be part of it.

Conclusion: Bioinformatics represents the convergence of biology and 
computation, and I want to be fluent in both languages. I am motivated by 
curiosity, by a recognition that computation is the future of biology, and 
by a desire to complement my laboratory research with computational power. 
My first exposure in the Phage Lab program showed me a glimpse of what is 
possible, and this course is my opportunity to go deeper. By setting 
goals, following a structured learning plan, and embracing reproducibility 
and documentation, I hope to emerge not only with skills, but with a new 
way of seeing biology. Ultimately, I want to contribute to science in a 
way that is rigorous, transparent, and impactful—and bioinformatics is the 
key to that vision.
